docs/reports/HTTP_AWARE_INTEGRATION_REPORT.md, before:

# HTTP-Aware Strategy Integration Report

## Phase 1 Completion Summary

### Test Suite Status: ✅ ALL TESTS PASSING
- **Total Tests:** 50+ comprehensive test cases
- **Test Categories:** Core functionality, curl integration, real API validation, edge cases
- **Status:** 100% passing after fixing max delay capping expectation

### Fixed Issues
1. **TestHTTPAware_CurlRealWorldIntegration** - Updated test expectation to correctly validate max delay capping behavior (30 minutes vs 1 hour)

## Real API Validation Results

### Successfully Validated APIs
The HTTP-aware strategy has been tested and validated against real-world API responses from:

#### 1. GitHub API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `retry-after: 3600` (1 hour)
- **Headers:** `x-ratelimit-limit`, `x-ratelimit-remaining`, `x-ratelimit-reset`
- **Validation:** ✅ Correctly parses and respects server timing

#### 2. Twitter API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `x-rate-limit-reset: 1721995200` (timestamp)
- **Headers:** Custom rate limit headers
- **Validation:** ✅ Handles timestamp-based reset times

#### 3. AWS API
- **Throttling Response:** `retry-after: 120` (2 minutes)
- **Error Format:** JSON with retry information
- **Validation:** ✅ Parses both headers and JSON responses

#### 4. Stripe API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `retry-after: 60` (1 minute)
- **Headers:** Standard HTTP retry-after
- **Validation:** ✅ Handles payment API rate limiting

#### 5. Discord API
- **Rate Limit Response:** JSON with `retry_after` field
- **Format:** `{"retry_after": 45.123, "global": false}`
- **Validation:** ✅ Parses JSON retry timing with decimal precision

#### 6. Reddit API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `x-ratelimit-retry-after: 300` (5 minutes)
- **Headers:** Custom header format
- **Validation:** ✅ Handles non-standard header names

#### 7. Slack Webhook API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `retry-after: 30` (30 seconds)
- **Context:** Webhook rate limiting
- **Validation:** ✅ Works with webhook endpoints

## curl Integration Validation

### Supported curl Flags
- **`-i`** (include headers): ✅ Parses headers from response
- **`-D /dev/stderr`** (dump headers): ✅ Extracts headers from stderr
- **`-w '%{response_code}'`** (write-out): ✅ Handles custom output formats
- **`-v`** (verbose): ✅ Parses headers from verbose output
- **`-f`** (fail): ✅ Handles error responses with retry info

### HTTP Protocol Support
- **HTTP/1.1:** ✅ Standard header parsing
- **HTTP/2:** ✅ Modern protocol support
- **HTTP/3:** ✅ Future-ready implementation

## Edge Case Handling

### Robust Error Handling
- **Malformed responses:** ✅ Graceful fallback to exponential backoff
- **Missing headers:** ✅ Uses fallback strategy
- **Invalid JSON:** ✅ Continues with header parsing
- **Mixed case headers:** ✅ Case-insensitive parsing
- **Multiple retry headers:** ✅ Prioritizes most specific

### Max Delay Capping
- **Behavior:** Server-suggested delays are capped at configured maximum
- **Example:** 1-hour server suggestion → 30-minute actual delay (when max = 30min)
- **Rationale:** Prevents indefinite waits from misconfigured servers

## Performance Characteristics

### Memory Usage
- **Overhead:** Minimal additional memory for HTTP parsing
- **Parsing:** Efficient regex-based header extraction
- **JSON:** Lightweight JSON parsing for retry fields

### CPU Usage
- **Header Parsing:** O(n) where n = response size
- **JSON Parsing:** Only when JSON detected in response
- **Fallback:** Zero overhead when no HTTP info available

## Integration Architecture

### Strategy Interface Compliance
```go
type AdaptiveStrategy interface {
    Strategy
    ProcessCommandOutput(stdout, stderr string, exitCode int)
}
```

### Fallback Behavior
- **Primary:** HTTP-aware parsing of server responses
- **Fallback:** Exponential backoff when no HTTP info available
- **Graceful:** No failures, always provides a delay value

## Production Readiness Assessment

### ✅ Ready for Production
1. **Comprehensive test coverage** - 50+ test cases
2. **Real API validation** - 7 major APIs tested
3. **Edge case handling** - Robust error scenarios
4. **Performance validated** - Minimal overhead
5. **curl integration** - Works with existing tooling
6. **Fallback strategy** - Never fails to provide delay

### Next Phase Recommendations
1. **CLI Integration** - Add `--backoff http-aware` flag
2. **Configuration** - TOML config support
3. **Documentation** - User-facing examples
4. **Benchmarking** - Add to performance test suite

## Conclusion

The HTTP-aware strategy implementation is **production-ready** with comprehensive validation against real-world APIs. The strategy successfully parses HTTP responses, respects server timing, and provides intelligent fallback behavior while maintaining the performance characteristics of the existing patience CLI tool.

**Phase 1 Status: ✅ COMPLETE**

Commit message:

Improve documentation style across all docs
Apply clear-writing rules throughout 16 documentation files:
- Remove throat-clearing openers and self-congratulatory phrasing
- Convert nominalizations to active verbs
- Replace inflated vocabulary (flagship, intelligently, seamlessly)
- Break binary contrasts into direct statements
- Convert rhetorical "Why X?" headers to declarative "X benefits:"
- Simplify superlatives in performance reports (exceptional → accurate metrics)
- Remove padding phrases and shorten overlong sentences

https://claude.ai/code/session_01VcubMFJzAYSb3iX87H6A5T

docs/reports/HTTP_AWARE_INTEGRATION_REPORT.md, after:

# HTTP-Aware Strategy Integration Report

## Phase 1 Completion Summary

### Test Suite Status: ✅ ALL TESTS PASSING
- **Total Tests:** 50+ comprehensive test cases
- **Test Categories:** Core functionality, curl integration, real API validation, edge cases
- **Status:** 100% passing after fixing max delay capping expectation

### Fixed Issues
1. **TestHTTPAware_CurlRealWorldIntegration** - Updated test expectation to correctly validate max delay capping behavior (30 minutes vs 1 hour)

## Real API Validation Results

### Successfully Validated APIs
The HTTP-aware strategy has been tested and validated against real-world API responses from:

#### 1. GitHub API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `retry-after: 3600` (1 hour)
- **Headers:** `x-ratelimit-limit`, `x-ratelimit-remaining`, `x-ratelimit-reset`
- **Validation:** ✅ Correctly parses and respects server timing

#### 2. Twitter API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `x-rate-limit-reset: 1721995200` (timestamp)
- **Headers:** Custom rate limit headers
- **Validation:** ✅ Handles timestamp-based reset times

#### 3. AWS API
- **Throttling Response:** `retry-after: 120` (2 minutes)
- **Error Format:** JSON with retry information
- **Validation:** ✅ Parses both headers and JSON responses

#### 4. Stripe API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `retry-after: 60` (1 minute)
- **Headers:** Standard HTTP retry-after
- **Validation:** ✅ Handles payment API rate limiting

#### 5. Discord API
- **Rate Limit Response:** JSON with `retry_after` field
- **Format:** `{"retry_after": 45.123, "global": false}`
- **Validation:** ✅ Parses JSON retry timing with decimal precision

#### 6. Reddit API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `x-ratelimit-retry-after: 300` (5 minutes)
- **Headers:** Custom header format
- **Validation:** ✅ Handles non-standard header names

#### 7. Slack Webhook API
- **Rate Limit Response:** `retry-after: 30` (30 seconds)
- **Context:** Webhook rate limiting
- **Validation:** ✅ Works with webhook endpoints

## curl Integration Validation

### Supported curl Flags
- **`-i`** (include headers): ✅ Parses headers from response
- **`-D /dev/stderr`** (dump headers): ✅ Extracts headers from stderr
- **`-w '%{response_code}'`** (write-out): ✅ Handles custom output formats
- **`-v`** (verbose): ✅ Parses headers from verbose output
- **`-f`** (fail): ✅ Handles error responses with retry info

### HTTP Protocol Support
- **HTTP/1.1:** ✅ Standard header parsing
- **HTTP/2:** ✅ Modern protocol support
- **HTTP/3:** ✅ Future-ready implementation

## Edge Case Handling

### Robust Error Handling
- **Malformed responses:** ✅ Graceful fallback to exponential backoff
- **Missing headers:** ✅ Uses fallback strategy
- **Invalid JSON:** ✅ Continues with header parsing
- **Mixed case headers:** ✅ Case-insensitive parsing
- **Multiple retry headers:** ✅ Prioritizes most specific

### Max Delay Capping
- **Behavior:** Server-suggested delays are capped at configured maximum
- **Example:** 1-hour server suggestion → 30-minute actual delay (when max = 30min)
- **Rationale:** Prevents indefinite waits from misconfigured servers

## Performance Characteristics

### Memory Usage
- **Overhead:** Minimal additional memory for HTTP parsing
- **Parsing:** Efficient regex-based header extraction
- **JSON:** Lightweight JSON parsing for retry fields

### CPU Usage
- **Header Parsing:** O(n) where n = response size
- **JSON Parsing:** Only when JSON detected in response
- **Fallback:** Zero overhead when no HTTP info available

## Integration Architecture

### Strategy Interface Compliance
```go
type AdaptiveStrategy interface {
    Strategy
    ProcessCommandOutput(stdout, stderr string, exitCode int)
}
```

### Fallback Behavior
- **Primary:** HTTP-aware parsing of server responses
- **Fallback:** Exponential backoff when no HTTP info available
- **Graceful:** No failures, always provides a delay value

## Production Readiness Assessment

### ✅ Ready for Production
1. **Comprehensive test coverage** - 50+ test cases
2. **Real API validation** - 7 major APIs tested
3. **Edge case handling** - Robust error scenarios
4. **Performance validated** - Minimal overhead
5. **curl integration** - Works with existing tooling
6. **Fallback strategy** - Never fails to provide delay

### Next Phase Recommendations
1. **CLI Integration** - Add `--backoff http-aware` flag
2. **Configuration** - TOML config support
3. **Documentation** - User-facing examples
4. **Benchmarking** - Add to performance test suite

## Conclusion

The HTTP-aware strategy is production-ready, validated against real-world APIs. It parses HTTP responses, respects server timing, and falls back gracefully when no HTTP information is available.

**Phase 1 Status: ✅ COMPLETE**
